# Localizing MFA Web parts

For security reasons, and to avoid unsafe code execution. 
The translation of the resources must be done by recompiling the code of the adfsmfa solution with Visual Studio and signing the code with your own key.

Remember that this is an open-source project. 
If you think you have a better translation and that it can be shared with everyone. you must post a pull-request at https://github.com/neos-sdi/adfsmfa/pulls. 
If these proposals are integrated, they will be maintained in the future.

You can also offer translations for unsupported languages (French, English, Spanish (draft)), such as German, Italian, Russian, etc.

If you do not want or can not recompile the solution, we'll give you a simpler alternative that does not require software development skills.
We think that this is not the best solution, but it can allow you to precisely test the interface you want to offer. 
Later, you will need to be able to upgrade your translations or to propose them to the community in order to integrate your work into the project.

Editing resource-based translations is only available for the Web Interface part.
The console and PowerShell do not allow resource-based translation.

How to do ?

1- Retrieve the complete code of the solution (version 2.3 or more)
2- unpack the source code on your workstation (no development tool required).
3- On your adfs server move to C:\Program Files\MFA\ResourceSet
4- Copy ResGen.exe on your Workstation
5- On Workstation
6- Move to the directory ..\Manage_Resources
7- Paste the Resgen.exe
8- Execute: 0-import_resources.cmd
9- Execute: 1-edit_resources.cmd
10- Move to the directory .. \Manage_Resources\Sources
11- With a text editor of your choice (Notepad, TextPad, VS, but not MSWord) modify the labels present in the different .resx files.
12- Execute: 2-Build_resources.cmd (ES or FR)
13- Get the .resources files corresponding to the .resx files you have modified
14- Copy the .resources files on the different ADFS servers in C:\Program Files\MFA\ResourceSet
15- Restart the ADFS services (net stop adfssrv and net start adfssrv)

16- Done!